---
title: interview
tags:
---

Category | Question | Answer
--- | --- | ---
Background|Apart from you home country and New Zealand, have you ever lived in any other country? Did you find the experience challenging?|No.
Background|Have you ever been to New Zealand?|No.
Background|Do you have family members in other countries?|No.
Background|Have you considered migrating to these countries?|No.
Background|Have you looked into any voluntary work and/or community activities in New Zealand? (eg. Childcare, school involvement, service organizations)|Not yet.
Background|What is your educational background? (degree conferred, name of institution and date obtained) | After the middle school, (I went a local police school. My family hoped I could be police officer. Personally, I prefer doing business. So after the police school,) I continued the study of accountancy at Jiangsu radio and television university and got the bachelor degree of accountancy in 2001.
Background|Can you tell me briefly about your current employment, skills and experience? | I work for a business company named "Jiujiu" industry gas as an administrator assistant since 2003. It's located in Jingjiang, a city not too far away from Shanghai. After my second daughter was born in 2010, I mainly work home-based because of the increasing housework and I put more focus on taking care of children, especially their schooling.
Background|What is your current living situation? | I live with my husband and my children in Shanghai. We have our own apartment in a quiet community. We have regular salaries and savings for travel and children's education. So we have no worry about living cost.
Motivation|What has motivated you to consider migrating to New Zealand at this time? | Frankly speaking, English is the most widely-used language. I hope my children can understand and be understood by people in the world. (It is quite important as people in the world are getting closer and closer, just as someone mentioned:"World is flat".) And living with native speakers can make this come true. Apart from this, I've been always fascinated by New Zealand's culture. It's unique in that it has the local history in the long period of isolation and is influenced by western culture afterwards. It's also a place close to nature. I believe it is very good to my family. I see these from magazines, postcards, and TV programmes. Especially 3 years ago, a popular talk-show host in China, Mr. Gao, gave a thorough introduction to New Zealand in his talk-show series. I quite appreciate it and it gave me a very good impression of this country.
Motivation|When did you start to think about migrating to New Zealand? | A friend of my mother, Mr. Sun, mentioned his experience as a skilled migrant to New Zealand several times (around 2014). He's been settled in New Zealand for many years and is doing business with my mother. My family and I quite trust him.
Location|Tell me how will you find permanent accommodation? | Ask for advice from out friends; Visit estate agency or estate website for available rooms/houses; Make sure the community has access to school, hospital (and market).
Location|Have you thought about where you might live? What attracts you to that area, eg climate, lifestyle, contacts, education facilities? | It depends on where my husband can find a regular job. We'll start from Auckland. One of our friends in Auckland, Ms. Dai, once suggested to us that North shore is a good place, especially for new emigrants. Basically, my children and I like warmer place like Auckland. It has a mild temperature even in winter. And most our friends are living in Auckland, which is another advantage. I heard there could be traffic issue in rush hours but should not be a big problem compared to the traffic here in Shanghai. And public schools are good in that area.
Location|Please tell me your top three priorities for settling in New Zealand? | Help my husband find a regular job; Find a house with access to school; Apply for a local driving license.
Preparation|What preparations have you completed towards migrating to New Zealand since then? | I applied for extra English class for both of my daughters. Check out news on social media (like internet forum, cycle of friends on instant message) about housing, schooling in popular locations in New Zealand like Auckland.
Preparation|What do you think will be the difficulties you might encounter in settling in New Zealand? | It's challenging to choose a place to settle down. It takes time to make a decision. And the decision has to be made according to our own experience. Children also need some time to get used to the new environment. Children's need is always one of my priorities.
Preparation|What are those things that you think you will have to adjust to if you live in New Zealand? | Be fluent in English speaking is the first priority. So that I could have no problem to express myself and living facilities. And in the long run, it's important to make friends.
Preparation|What plans do you have to help you and your children (where applicable) settle in New Zealand? | For me, I will get myself familiar with the facilities. For example, how to use a bank account, pay electricity or water bill, get help from local authority or community. For children, I will tell them to show respect to people with different skin color and don't be shy to express themselves and ask for help if necessary.
Preparation|Do you think you will find adjusting to New Zealand easy or difficult? | Do you think your adjustment will be relatively quick or will it take some time? What does it cost to rent or buy a house in that area? | 500 dollar per week for an apartment with two bedrooms (in north shore)
Preparation | What similarities do you see between your country and New Zealand? | Both countries value people who make a living by work and make contribution to society. And we respect people from ethnic group and live together within the same community.
Preparation | What differences are you aware of in New Zealand? | It's still important to improve myself in profession skill and personal interest, but it's equally important to be able to cooperate with other people and share with them. Everyone has his or her strength that I could learn from it. 